Rational PoSt (#332)
filecoin-project/specs: proof-of-spacetime.md

## Proof-of-Spacetime

This document describes Rational-PoSt, the Proof-of-Spacetime used in Filecoin.

## Rational PoSt

### Definitions

> - **POST_PROVING_PERIOD**: The time interval in which a PoSt has to be submitted.

Reviewer: put this into a table, and put a number (we can stick to ~1 day for now)

> - **POST_CHALLENGE_TIME**: The time offset at which the actual work of generating the PoSt should be started. This is some delta before the end of the `Proving Period`, and as such less then a single `Proving Period`.

Reviewer: this should be backed with some research on:
- how long it takes to get a message in other currencies, for now, we can set to 2h
- how long it takes to generate a proof

add this as a todo note or as a design note ^

### High Level API

#### Fault Detection

> Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to post an up to date `AddFaults` message to the chain. The PoSt generation then takes the latest available `faults` of the miner to generate a PoSt matching the committed sectors and faults.

Reviewer: `faultSet`

> At the beginning of a new proving period all faults are reset, and if they persist the miner needs to resubmit an `AddFaults` message.

Reviewer: add a note on what happens if they are "lost" sectors - e.g. put them in them in the done set

                                                        │
                                                                       ┌ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ┐
                                                        └ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Randomness Input
                                                                       └ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ┘
```

TODO: Add post submission to the diagram.

### High Level API

#### Fault Detection

Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to post an up to date `AddFaults` message to the chain. When recovering any faults, they need to submit a `RecoverFaults` message. The PoSt generation then takes the latest available `faults` of the miner to generate a PoSt matching the committed sectors and faults.

TODO: Is it okay to add a fault and recover from it in the same proving period?

#### Generation

```go
func GeneratePoSt(sectorSize BytesAmount, sectors []commR, seed []byte, faults FaultSet) PoStProof {
    // Generate the Merkle Inclusion Proofs + Faults

    inclusionProofs := []
    challenges := DerivePoStChallenges(sectorSize, seed, faults)

>     for n in 0..POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT {

Reviewer 2: try to stick to valid go syntax so we can use the code formatter

                                                        └ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Randomness Input
                                                                       └ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ┘
```

TODO: Add post submission to the diagram.

### High Level API

#### Fault Detection

Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to post an up to date `AddFaults` message to the chain. When recovering any faults, they need to submit a `RecoverFaults` message. The PoSt generation then takes the latest available `faults` of the miner to generate a PoSt matching the committed sectors and faults.

TODO: Is it okay to add a fault and recover from it in the same proving period?

#### Generation

```go
func GeneratePoSt(sectorSize BytesAmount, sectors []commR, seed []byte, faults FaultSet) PoStProof {
    // Generate the Merkle Inclusion Proofs + Faults

    inclusionProofs := []
    challenges := DerivePoStChallenges(sectorSize, seed, faults)

    for n in 0..POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT {
        challenge := challenges[n]
        sector := challenge % len(sectors)

        // Leaf index of the selected sector

>         challenge_value = challenge % sectorSize

Reviewer 3: Is it really safe to derive the challenged sector and challenged leaf in this way? This seems to heavily correlate the two. For example, suppose `len(sectors)` and `sector_size / 32` were the same. (I know this is unrealistic.) In that case, the challenged leaf would be entirely determined by the challenged sector (for a given set of sectors). That means a miner whose sectors are static (at capacity) would always receive the same challenges for each sector and could simply cache the proof for one leaf (no data storage required). 

This is obviously an extreme case, but its existence is troubling. A more plausible example: suppose a miner is storing 1TiB, with a sector size of 1GiB. That would make `len(sectors) = 1024` and `sector_size = 1073741824 `, with one being 1048576 times the other. In this case, it seems that there are only 1048576 possible challenged leafs for any given sector. If true, that would allow storage of only these 1048576 proofs (each 32x25 = 800 bytes) for a 22% space reduction.

As far as I can tell, this issue exists any time the sector size is a multiple of the of the number of sectors being proved. If this is true, rather than come up with clever ways to reduce the risk, I think we should probably use entirely independent challenge values to select the sector and the leaf within that sector. (There are other strategies, but I think what I propose is simple and safe.)

To see why the current challenge derivation method is problematic, consider:

When SECTOR_SIZE = M * SECTOR_COUNT, then for any given challenge C such that C % SECTOR_COUNT = CHOSEN_SECTOR, there are only M distinct values of C % SECTOR_SIZE. The possible chosen leaves are: i * M + CHOSEN_SECTOR for i in [1..M]. Any C which yields a different leaf when selecting by C % SECTOR_SIZE will also yield a different sector when selecting by C % SECTOR_COUNT.

Make sense?

cc: @nicola @nikkolasg

Author: proposal: given that we already have 32bytes of randomness and only need 64bits of it at the moment we can do 
- take the low 8 bytes to select the sector
- take the high 8 bytes to select the leaf

thoughts?

Reviewer 3: It might be a little cleaner just to take the first 8 bytes for one and the next 8 bytes for the other, but either way would address this issue.

Author: I have switched to this, makes it clearer how challenge derivation works as well. I am not a 100% sure it is an issue, but the new solution should be fully safe

Reviewer 3: Thanks, @dignifiedquire.

        sectorsSorted[i] = sectors[sector]
    }

    // Verify snark
    VerifyPoStSnark(sectorSize, challenges, sectorsSorted)
}
```

#### Types

```go
type PoStProof struct {
    snark []byte
}
```

#### Challenge Derivation

```go
// Derive the full set of challenges for PoSt.
func DerivePoStChallenges(sectorCount: Uint, seed []byte, faults FaultSet) [POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT]Uint {
    challenges := []

    for n in 0..POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT {
        attempt := 0
        while challenges[n] == nil {
            challenge := DerivePoStChallenge(seed, n, faults, attempt)

            // check if we landed in a faulty sector
            sector := challenge % sectorCount
            if !faults.Contains(sector) {
                // Valid challenge
                challenges[n] = challenge
            }
            // invalid challenge, regenerate
            attempt += 1
        }
    }

    return challenges
}

// Derive a single challenge for PoSt.
func DerivePoStChallenge(seed []byte, n Uint, attempt Uint) Uint {
    n_bytes := WriteUintToLittleEndian(n)
    data := concat(seed, n_bytes, WriteUintToLittleEndian(attempt))
    challenge := blake2b(data)

>     ReadUintLittleEndain(challenge)

Reviewer 3: 'Endian' (spelling)

## Proof-of-Spacetime

This document describes Rational-PoSt, the Proof-of-Spacetime used in Filecoin.

## Rational PoSt

### Definitions

| Name | Value |Description |
|------|-------|------------|
| `POST_PROVING_PERIOD` | `2880` blocks  (~24h) | The time interval in which a PoSt has to be submitted. |

> | `POST_CHALLENGE_TIME` | `240` blocks (~2h) | The time offset at which the actual work of generating the PoSt should be started. This is some delta before the end of the `Proving Period`, and as such less then a single `Proving Period`. |

Reviewer: The challenge for the current proving period can only be retrieved after POST_PROVING_PERIOD-POST_CHALLENGE_TIME

Reviewer: maybe you should define it in the opposite way

> | `POST_CHALLENGE_TIME` | `240` blocks (~2h) | The time offset at which the actual work of generating the PoSt should be started. This is some delta before the end of the `Proving Period`, and as such less then a single `Proving Period`. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `POST_CHALLENGE_TIME` | `240` blocks (~2h) | The time offset at which the actual work of generating the PoSt must not be started earlier than. This is some delta before the end of the `Proving Period`, and as such less then a single `Proving Period`. |
```

This phrasing might make the intent a little clearer, but also maybe not. just a suggestion

Author: maybe "can not"?

{{% notice todo %}}
**TODO**: The above values are tentative and need both backing from research as well as detailed reasoning why we picked them.
{{% /notice %}}

### High Level API

#### Fault Detection

Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to submit the known `faults` using the `AddFaults` message to the chain.

> Only faults which have been reported at challenge time, will be accounted for. If any other faults have occured the miner can not submit a valid PoSt for this proving period.

Reviewer: "Only faults which have been reported at challenge time, will be accounted for. If a miner has faults after the challenge time, then they cannot submit a valid PoSt for this proving period."

Reviewer 2: you'd rather have them submit no post at all than let people submit faults after the deadline? I think we're on really different pages about how this all works.

Reviewer 2: @acruikshank technically yes, but i think that they are saying that that type of slashing would be removed, which I think is a bad idea.

Having the only downside of not submitting a post for an entire proving period be 'no power for that proving period' really damages a lot of the security that rational post is built on. That basically cuts the cost of the attack by the number of proving periods you can consecutively not submit PoSts for.

The PoSt generation then takes the latest available `faults` of the miner to generate a PoSt matching the committed sectors and faults.

> At the beginning of a new proving period all faults are reset, and if they persist the miner needs to resubmit an `AddFaults` message.

Reviewer: At the beginning of the next proving period all faults are reset and assumed to be recovered. A miner must be able to include those sectors in the next proof submission or re-submit the faults via an`AddFaults` message.

If the miner knows that the sectors are permanently lost, they can submit them as part of the `doneSet`, to ensure they are removed from the proving set.

{{% notice todo %}}
**TODO**: The penalization for faults is not clear yet.
{{% /notice %}}

#### Generation

`GeneratePoSt` generates a __*Proof of Spacetime*__ over all  __*sealed sectors*__ of a single miner— identified by their `commR` commitments. This is accomplished by performing a series of merkle inclusion proofs (__*Proofs of Retrievability*__). Each proof is of a challenged node in a challenged sector. The challenges are generated pseudo-randomly, based on the provided `seed`. At each time step, a number of __*Proofs of Retrievability*__ are performed.

```go
// Generate a new PoSt.

> func GeneratePoSt(sectorSize BytesAmount, sectors SectorSet, seed Seed, faults FaultSet) PoStProof {

Reviewer 4: This document should specify how this seed is extracted from the chain.  Specifically what height and what lookback parameter.  From conversation with @whyrusleeping and @henri I believe it is taken from the first block that begins the challenge period with no lookback parameter.

Reviewer 4: If the above is correct one complication for setting `POST_CHALLENGE_TIME` is that the seed value will become invalid after generation has begun with some non-negligible probability due to head churn.  This interval will need to be long enough for an acceptable number of retries.  Equivalently we could add a lookback parameter past the chain's head churn.

Author: @ZenGround0 yes churn is a possible concern but we need to take the seed from that exact block, see earlier comments from @whyrusleeping.

Reviewer 5: We should adjust `POST_CHALLENGE_TIME` to allow ample time for churn to resolve and still leave time for proof calculation.

    // Generate the Merkle Inclusion Proofs + Faults

    inclusionProofs := []
	sectorsSorted := []
    challenges := DerivePoStChallenges(seed, faults, sectorSize, len(sectors))

    for i := 0; i < len(challenges); i++ {
        challenge := challenges[i]

        // Leaf index of the selected sector
        inclusionProof, isFault := GenerateMerkleInclusionProof(challenge.Sector, challenge.Leaf)
        if isFault {

>             // faulty sector, need to post a fault to the chain and try to recover from it

Reviewer: Comment should be more like:

"Detected late fault: The data needed for this post submission is missing, report either as a fault (if you are planning to recover it) and also as a done the missing sector (if you cannot recover)."

Seed [32]byte
```

```go
type Challenge struct {
    Sector Uint
    Leaf Uint
}
```

#### Challenge Derivation

```go
// Derive the full set of challenges for PoSt.
func DerivePoStChallenges(seed Seed, faults FaultSet, sectorSize Uint, sectorCount Uint) [POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT]Challenge {
    challenges := []

    for n := 0; n < POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT; n++ {
        attemptedSectors := {SectorID:bool}
        while challenges[n] == nil {
            challenge := DerivePoStChallenge(seed, n, faults, attempt, sectorSize, sectorCount)

            // check if we landed in a faulty sector
            if !faults.Contains(challenge.Sector) {
                // Valid challenge
                challenges[n] = challenge
            }

            // invalid challenge, regenerate
            attemptedSectors[challenge.Sector] = true

            if len(attemptedSectors) >= sectorCount {
                Fatal("All sectors are faulty")
            }
        }
    }

    return challenges
}

// Derive a single challenge for PoSt.
func DerivePoStChallenge(seed Seed, n Uint, attempt Uint, sectorSize Uint, sectorCount Uint) Challenge {
    n_bytes := WriteUintToLittleEndian(n)

>     data := concat(seed, n_bytes, WriteUintToLittleEndian(attempt))

Reviewer: create an issue on whether or not we need to add the "minerId" in this^

    challenge_bytes := blake2b(data)

    sector_challenge := ReadUintLittleEndian(challenge_bytes[0..8])
    leaf_challenge := ReadUintLittleEndian(challenge_bytes[8..16])

    return Challenge {

>         Sector: sector_challenge % sectorCount,

Reviewer: this does not give a uniform distribution, but in practice it should work for this case, worth creating an issue.

If sectorsCount does not divide the 8 bytes, then distribution is not uniform. For example: say that the sector_challenges goes from 0-20, and sectors_count is 17, then sector 0,1,2 are more likely to be queried.

Check how others do this, ping @irenegiacomelli @ben-a-fisch

Reviewer 3: I think when this came up for EC, we decided it was fine to use division. That would mean dividing the challenge range (0..2^64) into `sector_count` sub-ranges and selecting a sector based on which sub-range the challenge falls in. I don't think introduction of `BigNum` math would be problematic here, especially if we already use that method for consensus.

Reviewer 3: That said, we use `mod NODES` to derive challenges within sectors already, so we tolerate the bias there.

I can see the argument that it's okay when the potential challenge set is 'large' (like node count) but if we are revisiting here, we might want to consider everywhere and be consistent.

Reviewer 2: yeah, lower numbers will be `1 / ( 2^len(randomness) / numSectors)` more likely to be challenged.

In practice, that number is effectively zero.

## Proof-of-Spacetime

This document describes Rational-PoSt, the Proof-of-Spacetime used in Filecoin.

## Rational PoSt

### Definitions

| Name | Value |Description |
|------|-------|------------|
| `POST_PROVING_PERIOD` | `2880` blocks  (~24h) | The time interval in which a PoSt has to be submitted. |
| `POST_CHALLENGE_TIME` | `240` blocks (~2h) | The time offset at which the actual work of generating the PoSt should be started. This is some delta before the end of the `Proving Period`, and as such less then a single `Proving Period`. |

> {{% notice todo %}}

Author: we use this to get nice renderings on https://filecoin-project.github.io/specs/

**TODO**: The above values are tentative and need both backing from research as well as detailed reasoning why we picked them.
{{% /notice %}}

### High Level API

#### Fault Detection

> Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to submit the known `faults` using the `AddFaults` message to the chain.

Reviewer 6: Reading this PR, aren't all faults going to be ones that go-filecoin doesn't know about?  Since faults are reset at the beginning of a proving period?  Or is that we could be challenged on the same (possibly faulted) sector more than once in a proving period...

> Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to submit the known `faults` using the `AddFaults` message to the chain.

Reviewer 5: "the miner is responsible to submit the known faults..."  *before the PoSt challenge window begins*. If a miner experiences a fault after the PoSt challenge window opens but before computing the PoSt, they will be unable to submit a PoSt in this period, will lose power, and potentially face other penalties.

> Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to submit the known `faults` using the `AddFaults` message to the chain.

Reviewer 2: no, the miner just has to submit the faults before they submit their post.

> Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to submit the known `faults` using the `AddFaults` message to the chain.

Reviewer 5: I was led to believe that the seed for challenges would be sampled at a fixed chain height, and that faults reported before this height would affect the seed/challenges, but those reported afterwards would not be taken into account (and hence might be challenged). I would love to be wrong, but let's be very clear here.

If I'm wrong, a miner could sample for challenges, discover a challenge they don't like, report a fault, sample again for a different value, 🔁 . Is that ok?

> Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to submit the known `faults` using the `AddFaults` message to the chain.

Author: Validation expects the challenge to be taken at a specific block height, including the faults. (I need to update somethings in the PR to make this clearer) So you can _not_ change your challenge in any way once you know about it.

> Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to submit the known `faults` using the `AddFaults` message to the chain.

Reviewer: Note 1: faults can only be submitted before POST_CHALLENGE_TIME. So miners can't wait for the challenge to appear in order to report faults, and as dig is saying the can't affect the challenge once it appears.
Note 2: one does not know the challenge ahead of time, so they can't really try to minimize the reported faults. So, yes, reporting faults would affect the challenge, but they can't predict how, hence not a problem.

Does this clarify?

> Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to submit the known `faults` using the `AddFaults` message to the chain.

Reviewer 2: @nicola that doesnt work. What happens if a miner experiences a fault after the PoSt deadline? They won't be able to complete their PoSt or submit a new set of faults, and will just miss their PoSt entirely (bad).

> Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to submit the known `faults` using the `AddFaults` message to the chain.

Reviewer: We already went through this. The chance that this happens is very small. You should have all of your fault submitted before you see the challenge. If you fault just after you see the challenge and just before you manage to grab the challenged data, then you fail the current post. You get penalized, it’s the equivalent of faulting every sector and then reintroduce them in the next pp.

If we are not fine with this, then PoSt, must get many more challenges, linear in the number of sectors - so quite a lot.

> Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to submit the known `faults` using the `AddFaults` message to the chain.

Reviewer 2: @nicola thats not an okay solution

what happens if network delays cause the fault submission to get pushed past the deadline?
what if a miner just doesnt notice their data is corrupted until they try to read it (really common)?
"sorry, you lose everything, piss off" is not a good answer

> Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to submit the known `faults` using the `AddFaults` message to the chain.

Reviewer: You “lose everything” in this case means: you temporarily loose all power and you get a penalization. This does not trigger storage collateral (would happen if this repeats five times) or pledge collateral loss.

Temporary power reduction seem fine to me

> Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to submit the known `faults` using the `AddFaults` message to the chain.

Reviewer: Another note: the SLA that we are giving to the users is that the miners will keep on storing the data, if a miner realised during challenge time that they don’t have the data, then they have been either very unlucky or offered bad service, hence this penalisation ain’t that bad

> Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to submit the known `faults` using the `AddFaults` message to the chain.

Reviewer 2: but miners get penalized for the faults they report. I havent gotten a good answer for why this needs to be complicated like this. Let miners submit faults for their post up until they submit the post.

The PoSt generation then takes the latest available `faults` of the miner to generate a PoSt matching the committed sectors and faults.

> At the beginning of a new proving period all faults are reset, and if they persist the miner needs to resubmit an `AddFaults` message.

Author: It is assumed that they are recovered, so they will potentially get challenged on them.

{{% /notice %}}

#### Generation

`GeneratePoSt` generates a __*Proof of Spacetime*__ over all  __*sealed sectors*__ of a single miner— identified by their `commR` commitments. This is accomplished by performing a series of merkle inclusion proofs (__*Proofs of Retrievability*__). Each proof is of a challenged node in a challenged sector. The challenges are generated pseudo-randomly, based on the provided `seed`. At each time step, a number of __*Proofs of Retrievability*__ are performed.

```go
// Generate a new PoSt.
func GeneratePoSt(sectorSize BytesAmount, sectors SectorSet, seed Seed, faults FaultSet) PoStProof {
    // Generate the Merkle Inclusion Proofs + Faults

    inclusionProofs := []
	sectorsSorted := []
    challenges := DerivePoStChallenges(seed, faults, sectorSize, len(sectors))

    for challenge in challenges {
        // Leaf index of the selected sector
        inclusionProof, isFault := GenerateMerkleInclusionProof(challenge.Sector, challenge.Leaf)
        if isFault {
            // faulty sector, need to post a fault to the chain and try to recover from it
            return Fatal("Detected late fault")
        }

        inclusionProofs[n] = inclusionProof

> 		sectorsSorted[i] = sectors[sector]

Reviewer 7: I don't see the `sectors` (in `sectors[sector]`) symbol defined in this function anywhere.

    }

    return proof, faults
}
```

#### Verification

`VerifyPoSt` is the functional counterpart to `GeneratePoSt`. It takes all of `GeneratePoSt`'s output, along with those of `GeneratePost`'s inputs required to identify the claimed proof. All inputs are required because verification requires sufficient context to determine not only that a proof is valid but also that the proof indeed corresponds to what it purports to prove.

```go
// Verify a PoSt.
func VerifyPoSt(sectorSize BytesAmount, sectors SectorSet, seed Seed, proof PoStProof, faults FaultSet) bool {
    challenges := DerivePoStChallenges(seed, faults, sectorSize, len(sectors))
    sectorsSorted := []

    // Match up commitments with challenges
    for challenge in challenges {
        sectorsSorted[i] = sectors[challenge.Sector]
    }

    // Verify snark
    VerifyPoStSnark(sectorSize, challenges, sectorsSorted)
}
```

#### Types

```go
// The final proof stored on chain.
type PoStProof struct {
    snark []byte
}
```

```go
// The random challenge seed, provided by the chain.
Seed [32]byte
```

```go
type Challenge struct {
    Sector Uint
    Leaf Uint
}
```

#### Challenge Derivation

> ```go

Reviewer 7: The code block is marked as `go`, but the code inside it is a mixture of Go and Rust (e.g. `for n in 0..POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT`).

// Derive the full set of challenges for PoSt.

> func DerivePoStChallenges(seed Seed, faults FaultSet, sectorSize: Uint, sectorCount: Uint) [POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT]Challenge {

Author: rust and go are mixing in my head..

    challenges := []

    for n in 0..POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT {
        attempt := 0

>         while challenges[n] == nil {

Author: you are right, should be fixed

            challenge := DerivePoStChallenge(seed, n, faults, attempt, sectorSize, sectorCount)

            // check if we landed in a faulty sector
            if !faults.Contains(challenge.Sector) {
                // Valid challenge
                challenges[n] = challenge
            }
            // invalid challenge, regenerate
            attempt += 1
        }
    }

    return challenges
}

// Derive a single challenge for PoSt.
func DerivePoStChallenge(seed Seed, n Uint, attempt Uint, sectorSize Uint, sectorCount: Uint) Challenge {
    n_bytes := WriteUintToLittleEndian(n)
    data := concat(seed, n_bytes, WriteUintToLittleEndian(attempt))
    challenge_bytes := blake2b(data)

    sector_challenge := ReadUintLittleEndian(challenge_bytes[0..8])
    leaf_challenge := ReadUintLittleEndian(challenge_bytes[8..16])

    Challenge {
        Sector: sector_challenge % sectorCount,

>         Leaf: leaf_challenge % (sectorSize / NODE_SIZE),

Reviewer 7: Question: Does the protocol define `NODE_SIZE` anywhere? I know it to be 32, but that's from looking at the software.

Author: yeah it is defined in the zigzag spec

    }
}
```

### PoSt Circuit

#### Public Parameters

*Parameters that are embeded in the circuits or used to generate the circuit*

- `POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT: UInt`: Number of challenges.
- `POST_TREE_DEPTH: UInt`: Depth of the Merkle tree. Note, this is `(log_2(Size of original data in bytes/32 bytes per leaf))`.

> - `SECTOR_SIZE: UInt`:

Reviewer 7: Nit: Dangling `:`.

#### Public Inputs

*Inputs that the prover uses to generate a SNARK proof and that the verifier uses to verify it*

> - `CommRs: [POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT]Fr`: The Merkle tree root hashes of all CommRs, ordered to match the inclusion paths and challenge order.

Reviewer 7: Nit: I suggest that you change this wording to:

> The Merkle tree root hashes of all replicas.

> - `InclusionPaths: [POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT]Fr`: Inclusion paths for the replica leafs, ordered to match the `CommRs` and challenge order. (Binary packed bools)

Reviewer 7: > (Binary packed bools)

Is this detail relevant to this part of the spec? If not, I suggest terminating it. If so, ignore me.

Author: It is relevant and explained in more detail in the zigzag spec I believe

#### Private Inputs

*Inputs that the prover uses to generate a SNARK proof, these are not needed by the verifier to verify the proof*

> - `InclusionProofs: [POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT][TREE_DEPTH]Fr`: Merkle tree inclusion proofs, ordered to match the challenge orderd.

Reviewer 7: Nit: `s/orderd/order/g`.

- `InclusionValues: [POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT]Fr`: Value of the encoded leaves for each challenge, ordered to match challenge order.

#### Circuit

##### High Level

In high level, we do 1 check:

1. **Inclusion Proofs Checks**: Check the inclusion proofs

##### Details

```go
for c in range POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT {
  // Inclusion Proofs Checks

>   assert(MerkleTreeVerify(CommRs[c], InclusionPath[c], IncludionProof[c], InclusionValue[c]))

Reviewer 7: Nit: `s/IncludionProof/InclusionProof/g`

```

TODO: Add post submission to the diagram.

### High Level API

#### Generation

```go
func GeneratePoSt(sectorSize BytesAmount, sectors []commR) (PoStProof, FaultSet) {
    // Generate the Merkle Inclusion Proofs + Faults

    inclusionProofs := []
    faults := NewFaultSet()

    for n in 0..POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT {
        attempt := 0
        'inner: for {
            challenge := DerivePoStChallenge(seed, n, faults, attempt)
            sector := challenge % sectorSize
            // check if we landed in a previously marked faulty sector
            if !faults.Contains(sector) {
                attempt += 1
                continue
            }

            challenge_value = challenge / sectorSize
            inclusionProof, isFault := GenerateMerkleInclusionProof(sector, challenge_value)
            if isFault {
                // faulty sector, generate a new challenge
                faults.Add(sector)
                attempt += 1
            } else {
                // no fault, move on to the next challenge
                inclusionProofs[n] = inclusionProof
                break 'inner
            }
        }

>     }

Reviewer: I am actually not too sure if I buy this behavior: if you announce faults only when challenged on them, then you might have a lot more of unreported faults, and this is bad, since if the challenges are ~200, then miners would only report at most 200 of them.

Hence, we:
- EITHER challenge every sector at least once (seems pretty expensive since we want to support 16k sectors per post (in case we do so, we must use the CommA trick, instead of passing one CommR per sector)
- OR miners must announce their faults before the POST_CHALLENGE_TIME, in this way they are required to report them all.

Author: Faults need to be announced as per the last discussions.

    challenges := DerivePoStChallenges(sectorSize, seed, faults)

    snark_proof := GeneratePoStSnark(sectorSize, challenges, sectors, inclusionProofs)

    proof := PoStProof {
        snark: snark_proof
    }

    return proof, faults
}
```

#### Verification

```go
func VerifyPoSt(sectorSize BytesAmount, sectors []commR, seed []byte, proof PoStProof, faults FaultSet) bool {
    challenges := DerivePoStChallenges(sectorSize, seed, faults)

    // Verify snark
    VerifyPoStSnark(sectorSize, challenges, sectors)
}
```

#### Types

```go
type PoStProof struct {
    snark []byte
}
```

#### Challenge Derivation

```go
// Derive the full set of challenges for PoSt.
func DerivePoStChallenges(sectorSize BytesAmount, seed []byte, faults FaultSet) [POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT][]byte {
    challenges := []

    for n in 0..POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT {
        attempt := 0
        'inner: for {
            challenge := DerivePoStChallenge(seed, n, faults, attempt)

            // check if we landed in a faulty sector
            sector := challenge % sectorSize
            if !faults.Contains(sector) {
                // Valid challenge
                challenges[n] = challenge

>                 break 'inner

Reviewer: is there a simpler way that define how this works without break?

it's very difficult to reason through this

Author: fixed

- `CommRs: [POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT]Fr`: The Merkle tree root hashe of all CommRs
- `InclusionPaths: [POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT]Fr`: Inclusion paths for the replica leafs. (Binary packed bools)

{{% notice todo %}}
**Todo**: `CommRs` should be optimized, by combining them into a single merkle tree, with a single root `CommA`.
Benchmark this first before commiting.
{{% /notice %}}

#### Private Inputs

*Inputs that the prover uses to generate a SNARK proof, these are not needed by the verifier to verify the proof*

- `InclusionProofs: [POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT][TREE_DEPTH]Fr`: Merkle tree inclusion proofs.
- `InclusionValues: [POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT]Fr`: Value of the encoded leaves for each challenge.

#### Circuit

##### High Level

In high level, we do 1 check:

1. **Inclusion Proofs Checks**: Check the inclusion proofs

##### Details

```go
for c in range POST_CHALLENGES_COUNT {
  // Inclusion Proofs Checks
  assert(MerkleTreeVerify(CommRs[c], InclusionPath[c], IncludionProof[c], InclusionValue[c]))
}
```

#### Verification of PoSt proof

- SNARK proof check: **Check** that given the SNARK proof and the public inputs, the SNARK verification outputs true

> - Challenges check: rederive the challenges, based on the seed, and check that they are equal.

Reviewer: no need to check that they are equal.

The verifier does not have any challenges, this step is done just to derive them.

Author: fixed

| Name | Value |Description |
|------|-------|------------|
| `POST_PROVING_PERIOD` | `2880` blocks  (~24h) | The time interval in which a PoSt has to be submitted. |
| `POST_CHALLENGE_TIME` | `240` blocks (~2h) | The time offset at which the actual work of generating the PoSt **can not** be started earlier than. This is some delta before the end of the `Proving Period`, and as such less then a single `Proving Period`. |

{{% notice todo %}}
**TODO**: The above values are tentative and need both backing from research as well as detailed reasoning why we picked them.
{{% /notice %}}

### High Level API

#### Fault Detection

Fault detection happens over the course of the life time of a sector. When the sector is for some reason unavailable, the miner is responsible to submit the known `faults`, before the PoSt challenge begins. (Using the `AddFaults` message to the chain).
Only faults which have been reported at challenge time, will be accounted for. If any other faults have occured the miner can not submit a valid PoSt for this proving period.

The PoSt generation then takes the latest available `faults` of the miner to generate a PoSt matching the committed sectors and faults.

> At the beginning of a new proving period all faults are reset, and if they persist the miner needs to resubmit an `AddFaults` message.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When a PoSt is successfully submitted all faults are reset and assumed to be recovered. A miner must either (1) resolve a faulty sector and accept challenges against it in the next proof submission, (2) report a sector faulty again if it persists but is eventually recoverable, (3) report a sector faulty *and done* if the fault cannot be recovered.
```
